Material.md, before:

# Dados

Repositório de links e afins sobre Dados:

## Diretórios

- Estatística
- Git
- Python
- R
- Júlia
- Jupyter
- Raspagem de dados
- LaTeX

## Links

### Configuração

- [Jupyter and data science in Fedora](https://fedoramagazine.org/jupyter-and-data-science-in-fedora/)

### Apresentação de Dados

- [How to Make Data-Driven Visual Essays](https://kottke.org/19/04/how-to-make-data-driven-visual-essays)
- [Visdown - Markdown for Visualisation](https://visdown.com/)
- Alberto Cairo: [Why a picture isn't necessarily worth a thousand words](https://community.jmp.com/t5/JMP-Blog/Alberto-Cairo-Why-a-picture-isn-t-necessarily-worth-a-thousand/ba-p/190124)
- Gina Reynolds: [the ggplot flipbook](https://evamaerey.github.io/ggplot_flipbook/ggplot_flipbook_xaringan.html)
- [RamanMap](https://github.com/amjadtaleb/RamanMap): Read spectral map file, find features, use KMeans to cluster pixels into different materials and interactive GUI using bokeh.
- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/index.html) *1
- [DataViz Project](https://datavizproject.com/): This is a website trying to present all relevant data visualizations, so you can find the right visualization and get inspired how to make them.
- [The Data Visualisation Catalogue](https://datavizcatalogue.com/)
- [The 25 Best Data Visualizations of 2018](https://visme.co/blog/best-data-visualizations/)
- Explaining A Single Isotype: [Creating Simplicity From Complexity](https://medium.com/data-visualization-society/explaining-a-single-isotype-creating-simplicity-from-complexity-15c174580336)
- The Functional Art:
  - [Lines aren't just for time-series](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/lines-arent-just-for-time-series.html)
  - [Aesthetics and ethics](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/aesthetics-as-ethics-jaime-serras.html): Jaime Serra's visualization philosophy
  - [Visualizing unreported murders in Mexico](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/visualizing-unreported-murders-in-mexico.html)
  - [A Venn diagram matrix by FiveThirtyEight](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/a-venn-diagram-matrix-by-fivethirtyeight.html)
  - [Concentric bubble charts are terrible; pie charts and moon charts may be OK](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/concentric-bubble-charts-are-terrible.html)
  - [Show AND tell](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/show-and-tell.html)
  - [Thoughts and readings about visualization critique](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/thoughts-and-readings-about.html)
  - [The language of visualization is ever-expanding](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/the-language-of-visualization-is-ever.html)
  - [Let's design more explanation graphics](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/lets-design-more-explanation-graphics.html): but let's edit them more tightly
  - [Mapping diversity and taking probability and base rates into account](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/mapping-diversity-and-taking.html)
  - [Absolute or relative values?](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/absolute-or-relative-values.html)
- [￼RawGraphs](https://rawgraphs.io/): The missing link between spreadsheets and data visualization. [repo](https://github.com/rawgraphs/raw/)
- [Panel GUI project for GSOC](https://github.com/intake/intake-gsoc-gui)

### Cores

- [Our understanding of rainbow color schemes remains incomplete](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/our-understanding-of-rainbow-color.html)

### Trabalhando com Dados

- [How to Make Data-Driven Visual Essays](https://kottke.org/19/04/how-to-make-data-driven-visual-essays)
  - How to Make Dope Shit, Part 1: [Working with Data](https://pudding.cool/process/how-to-make-dope-shit-part-1/)
  - How to Make Dope Shit, Part 2: [Design](https://pudding.cool/process/how-to-make-dope-shit-part-2/)
- [First M87 Event Horizon Telescope Results. III. Data Processing and Calibration - IOPscience](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/ab0c57)

### Dados Geográficos

- [Flow maps in QGIS – no plugins needed!](https://anitagraser.com/2019/05/04/flow-maps-in-qgis-no-plugins-needed/)
- [Visualization of wolf pack territoriality based on 68,000 GPS-locations over a 7 month period [OC]. : dataisbeautiful](https://www.reddit.com/r/dataisbeautiful/comments/biel6f/visualization_of_wolf_pack_territoriality_based/)
- [Logistic Regression from Bayes' Theorem](https://www.countbayesie.com/blog/2019/6/12/logistic-regression-from-bayes-theorem)
- [Comparing OpenStreetMap and Wikidata](https://janakiev.com/slides/wikidata-openstreetmap/) by Nikolai Janakiev

### Estatística

- [Logistic Regression · UC Business Analytics R Programming Guide](https://uc-r.github.io/logistic_regression)
- Statistics and Data Science with R: [Complete Course](https://statslectures.com/r-stats-videos-tutorials)
- [Statistical Rethinking](https://github.com/rmcelreath/statrethinking_winter2019): A Bayesian Course Using R and Stan

### Interatividade

- [How to Turn Your ggplot2 Visualization into an Interactive Tweet » The Datatitian](https://datatitian.com/how-to-turn-your-ggplot2-visualization-into-an-interactive-tweet/)
- [XrViz](https://github.com/intake/xrviz): [An interactive visualisation interface for Xarrays](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/xrviz-an-interactive-visualisation-interface-for-xarrays-9ecf8e325aa9?gi=3875f15a2a7)

### Linguagem R

- [rOpenSci Packages](https://ropensci.github.io/dev_guide/): Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review
- [Análise de Redes Sociais no R (1/3)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7W-dvk6GupA&list=PLKLmseeuB7Uy-3jX7YkPvnKEBce2PGbU_)
- [Suporte do rstats às iniciativas de transparência do Tesouro Nacional brasileiro](https://medium.com/@fernandobarbalho/suporte-do-rstats-%C3%A0s-iniciativas-de-transpar%C3%AAncia-do-tesouro-nacional-brasileiro-dfdd5e1ab831)
- [Levando o patinho feio ao nirvana: uma história de amor e ódio entre pdf e dados abertos](https://medium.com/@fernandobarbalho/levando-o-patinho-feio-ao-nirvana-uma-hist%C3%B3ria-de-amor-e-%C3%B3dio-entre-pdf-e-dados-abertos-37f9b62ec0b0)
- [R and RStudio Basics](https://ismayc.github.io/rbasics-book/3-rstudiobasics.html)
- [RStudio Essentials](https://resources.rstudio.com/)
- [YaRrr! The Pirate’s Guide to R](https://bookdown.org/ndphillips/YaRrr/)
- [The Tidyverse in Action](https://evamaerey.github.io/tidyverse_in_action/tidyverse_in_action.html): a flipbook for data wrangling and plotting and modeling | made with Xaringan
- [A Crash Course in the R Programming Language](https://billpetti.github.io/Crash_course_in_R/)
- [rainbowrite](https://github.com/richfitz/rainbowrite): Port of lolcat to R, providing a drop-in improved cat, warning and stop function.
- [VOSONDash](https://github.com/vosonlab/VOSONDash): R Shiny application for interactive analysis of networks created by vosonSML.
- [excelR](https://github.com/Swechhya/excelR): An Interface to 'jExcel.js' Library
- [Analyze Instagram with R](http://thinktostart.com/analyze-instagram-r/): This tutorial will show you how you create an Instagram app, create an authentication process with R and get data via the Instagram API.

#### Estilo de código

- [Style guide](http://adv-r.had.co.nz/Style.html): Good coding style is like using correct punctuation. You can manage without it, but it sure makes things easier to read. As with styles of punctuation, there are many possible variations.
- [Google's R Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/Rguide.xml):The goal of the R Programming Style Guide is to make our R code easier to read, share, and verify. The rules below were designed in collaboration with the entire R user community at Google.
- [formatR](https://yihui.name/formatr/).

#### Tutoriais

- [RStudio Tutorial – How to Import & Transform Data?](https://data-flair.training/blogs/rstudio-tutorial/)
- [Basic Data Analysis through R/R Studio](http://web.cs.ucla.edu/~gulzar/rstudio/basic-tutorial.html)
- [What does it look like at the top of the world?](https://www.simoncoulombe.com/2019/06/top-of-the-world/)
- [modelDown](https://mi2datalab.github.io/modelDown/): modelDown generates a website with HTML summaries for predictive models. [example](https://mi2datalab.github.io/modelDown_example/), on [cran](http://smarterpoland.pl/index.php/2019/06/modeldown-is-now-on-cran/)
- Links by [João Pedro](https://twitter.com/KimJoaoUn/status/1142942682613977093). (os que tiver *1 foi desse fio)
  - [Hands-On Programming with R](https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/index.html)
  - [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/index.html)
  - [Quantitative Social Science](http://qss.princeton.press/), by Kosuke Imai [materiais](http://qss.princeton.press/student-resources-for-quantitative-social-science/) [mais](http://gen.lib.rus.ec/book/index.php?md5=11D86C0E1D9F653266D2824B17E7DECC)
  - [petR](https://github.com/pedrocava/petR): Curso de R para o PET da Economia da UFF. Aulas e Material do Workshop de R com o PET da Faculdade de Economia da UFF.
- [Workshop sobre criação de workflows no workbench para exploração de dados](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRhkHlPcCpw6TwFk8D5kcvRX1PQ4KWkOUtxACqOf_WcHG6JVzd1YUYAATBz3oQpKAxbSCyx6OAVvOf2/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000#slide=id.p)

### Modelos

- [OSF | ShareSEM: Example and Template R Scripts for Lavaan, Blavaan, and More](https://osf.io/nh2mb/)
- [BOOKDOWN](https://bookdown.org/)

### Machine Learning

- [3 Machine Learning Books that Helped me Level Up](http://www.datastuff.tech/data-science/3-machine-learning-books-that-helped-me-level-up-as-a-data-scientist/)
- [Videos – Machine Behavior](https://machinebehavior.org/videos/)
- [Neural Network Models in R](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/neural-network-models-r)
- [Predictive Analytics using Machine Learning](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/predictive-analytics-machine-learning)

### Raspagem de Dados

- [Script para tirar série história de BOs do Estado de SP (fonte: SSPSP)](https://gist.github.com/voltdatalab/0bc390e674548b9b66c4d4cf9cdb6e2f)
- [World Cup in six lines of Python 3. Jogos da Copa do Mundo em cinco linhas de Python 3.](https://gist.github.com/fmasanori/1288160dad16cc473a53)
- [tweeter Hashtag grabber](https://gist.github.com/cuducos/08f7051ae7066d36bc5ff5803d2bf46f)
- [Construindo um robô monitor de Twitter](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ4fBn3y0pKVBMYfctLJAjG1sbXX4dXiOH9cZ2izHHAralSPJbadn2CZkFgjlij2n7KQZcQFJW6q1p2/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000#slide=id.g35f391192_00)
- [Find hidden friends and communities for any Facebook user](https://techblog.mediaservice.net/2019/05/find-hidden-friends-and-community-for-any-facebook-user/), [FFFF Finds Facebook Friends](https://github.com/sowdust/ffff). [example](https://www.mediaservice.net/upload919/ffff-graph/)

### Cursos

- [Data Science | University of London](https://london.ac.uk/courses/data-science-msc)
- [Curso de Análise de Dados Públicos PyLadies São Paulo](https://github.com/fmasanori/CursoPyLadiesSP)
- [Ciência de Dados](http://www.pucrs.br/politecnica/cursos/ciencia-de-dados/) - pós graduação na puc-pr

#### Palestras

- [realworldscicomp](https://github.com/melissawm/realworldscicomp): Palestra "De Fortran a Julia: Computação Científica no Mundo Real".
- [Dados abertos, Python e PostgreSQL: a combinação perfeita](http://turicas.info/slides/brasil.io/pgconfbr/)

### Geo

- [geobr](https://github.com/ipeaGIT/geobr): Easy access to shapefiles of the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) and other official spatial data sets of Brazil.

### Bases de Dados

- [World Bank Data](https://datahub.io/collections/world-bank): The World Bank has a wide array of high quality data and much of it is open data. It covers several distinct collections and databases.
- WorldBank [Gender Stats](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/gender-statistics): The Gender Statistics database is a comprehensive source for the latest sex-disaggregated data and gender statistics covering demography, education, health, access to economic opportunities, public life and decision-making, and agency.
  - [How to download a CSV file from the World Bank's dataset](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29167727/how-to-download-a-csv-file-from-the-world-banks-dataset)
- Brasil.IO: [Libertação de Dados Públicos, com Python](http://turicas.info/slides/brasil.io/qconsp2019/)
- [Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS14000000)
- [Buscador de Fondos de Inversión](https://www.selfbank.es/busqueda/fondos)
- [pySGS](https://github.com/rafpyprog/pySGS): 📈 Python interface for the Brazilian Central Bank's Time Series Management System (SGS)
- [mapa da violência de gênero](https://mapadaviolenciadegenero.com.br/downloads/)
- [leis-brasileiras](https://github.com/MinisterioPublicoRJ/leis-brasileiras): Scripts para baixar de forma automatizada as leis brasileiras disponíveis em sites de órgãos do governo.

#### Mudanças Climáticas

- [Anual Climate temperatures](http://www-users.york.ac.uk/~kdc3/papers/coverage2013/had4_krig_annual_v2_0_0.txt)
- [Berkeley Earth](http://berkeleyearth.lbl.gov/auto/Global/Land_and_Ocean_complete.txt): This file contains a detailed summary of the changes in Earth's global average surface temperature estimated by combining the Berkeley Earth land-surface temperature field with a reinterpolated version of the HadSST ocean temperature field.
- [NOAA](https://climate.copernicus.eu/sites/default/files/2019-06/ts_1month_anomaly_Global_ea_2T_201905_v01.csv)
- [GLOBAL Land-Ocean Temperature Index in 0.01 degrees Celsius](https://data.giss.nasa.gov/gistemp/tabledata_v3/GLB.Ts+dSST.txt): GHCN-v3 1880-04/2019 + SST: ERSST v5 1880-04/2019
- [Met Office Hadley Centre observations datasets](http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/hadobs/hadcrut4/)
- Aquecimento dos Oceanos:
  - [NOAA Ocean Data](https://data.nodc.noaa.gov/woa/DATA_ANALYSIS/3M_HEAT_CONTENT/DATA/basin/yearly/h22-w0-700m.dat)
  - [2018 Continues Record Global Ocean Warming](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00376-019-8276-x)
  - [altimetry.fr](ftp://ftp.aviso.altimetry.fr/pub/oceano/AVISO/indicators/msl/MSL_Serie_MERGED_Global_AVISO_GIA_Adjust_Filter2m.txt)
  - [csiro.au](ftp://ftp.csiro.au/legresy/gmsl_files/CSIRO_Alt.csv)
- Extensão de gelo no Ártico:
  - [Goddard](ftp://sidads.colorado.edu/DATASETS/NOAA/G02135/north/monthly/data/N_09_extent_v3.0.csv)
  - [sea ice area anomalies (millions of sq km) relative to 1981-2010](https://climate.copernicus.eu/sites/default/files/2019-06/ts_1month_anomaly_polar_ea_CI_201905_v01.csv)
  - [Massa Glaciar](http://wgms.ch/data/faq/mb_ref.csv)
  - [Hadley Centre Sea Ice and Sea Surface Temperature data set (HadISST)](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/hadobs/hadisst/)
- CO²:
  - [NOAA ESRL CO2 micromol/mol](ftp://aftp.cmdl.noaa.gov/products/trends/co2/co2_mm_mlo.txt)
  - [NOAA ESRL CO2](ftp://aftp.cmdl.noaa.gov/products/trends/co2/co2_mm_gl.txt)
  - [kishou.go.jp](https://gaw.kishou.go.jp/static/publications/global_mean_mole_fractions/2018/co2_monthly_20181122.csv)
- [Tweet of the Climate 2018](https://twitter.com/micefearboggis/status/1138471910201856005)
  
### Repositórios

- [datos-de-miercoles](https://github.com/cienciadedatos/datos-de-miercoles): Versión en español del proyecto #tidytuesday
- [another book on data science](https://github.com/rnorm/book_sample)
- [O'Reilly Graph Algorithms Book - Neo4j Graph Database Platform](https://neo4j.com/graph-algorithms-book/)
- Data science cheatsheets:
  - [Cheat Sheet](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/67qvytsapfk3rpq/AAARGdVnqswdZ0EXVGZkch33a?dl=0) (keras, matplotlib, R, python, pandas, numpy, etc..)
  - [Cheat Sheet](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/0kf92mu7kl4yoat/AABL47l2kduSdWRUXbAFvTMea?dl=0) (R, DateTimes, Databases, etc..)
- [tidytuesday](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday) - Official repo for the #tidytuesday project.
- [data_sci_guide](https://github.com/Chris-Engelhardt/data_sci_guide) - A community-sourced data science repo.
- [Data-Science](https://github.com/paulinhacnn/Data-Science) -  Toda semana um novo material estará disponível para guiar no estudo de ciência de dados =)
- [MATLAB–Python–Julia cheatsheet](https://cheatsheets.quantecon.org/)

### Assuntos Gerais

- [Lnews](https://www.labcomdata.com.br/)
- [Que tal organizar um ‘Cerveja com Dados’ em sua cidade? – Escola de Dados](https://escoladedados.org/2018/02/que-tal-organizar-um-cerveja-com-dados-em-sua-cidade/)
- [O que aprendi no Malofiej 27 – datavizbr](https://medium.com/datavizbr/o-que-aprendi-no-malofiej-27-6ca575b8ae3c)
- [Big Data Brasil Day 2019 rola nos dias 2 a 5 de maio](http://tutano.trampos.co/20800-big-data-brasil-day-2019/)
- [2019 Women in Tech Report](https://research.hackerrank.com/women-in-tech/2019)

#### Exemplos

- [Maps Mania: Plastic Polluted River & Oceans](http://googlemapsmania.blogspot.com/2019/04/plastic-polluted-river-oceans.html)
- [What's Really Warming the World? Climate deniers blame natural factors; NASA data proves otherwise](https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2015-whats-warming-the-world/)
- [O poder da Inteligência de Dados para Gestores do Ensino Superior](https://universidados.com.br/)
- [Analysing the Wahl-O-Mat about the 2019 EU election](https://github.com/askLubich/Wahl-O-Mat-EU-2019)
- [Lok Sabha ELection Results 2019](https://data.indianexpress.com/lok-sabha-elections-results-2019-live-counting/)
- [Exploratory Analysis of NBA Salary Data](https://github.com/basketballrelativity/salaries)
- [twitter-overlap](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/twitter-overlap): 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Twitter followers
- [Ciência de dados na linha de comando](http://turicas.info/slides/linha-de-comando/abraji-2019.html#/)
- [Conteúdos mais acessados pelos Iguaçuenses](https://medialabfoz.com/2019/06/28/top10primeiraquinzena/) – período 28/05 até 10/06. By MediaLAB FOZ
- [After Sandy Hook, we said never again. And then we let 2184 mass shootings happen.](https://www.vox.com/a/mass-shootings-america-sandy-hook-gun-violence)

#### Copyleft

- [CopyLeft Argentina](https://vialibre.org.ar/arcopy.pdf)

#### Bacana

- [The Effects of Peanut Butter on the Rotation of the Earth](https://improbable.com/airchives/classical/articles/peanut_butter_rotation.html)
- Amy Cesal on Twitter: ["When you're marrying the human you met while collaborating on #dataviz together, you're basically required to collaborate on some viz for the wedding, right?"](https://twitter.com/AmyCesal/status/1118858416691273730)
- Daniel Bolnick on Twitter: [Predicted # of deaths in Season 8 #GameofThrones](https://twitter.com/DanielBolnick/status/1115319449945628673) -: 1276. Based on a log-linear regression from seasons 1-7 (t = 7.1, P = 0.0009), using data..

#### Pesquisa

- [Ten simple rules towards healthier research labs](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006914)

#### Livros

- [Political Analysis Using R](https://www.springer.com/us/book/9783319234458)
- [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/)
- [Data Science from Scratch: First Principles with Python](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Data-Science-Scratch-Joel-Grus/dp/1492041130/)
- [How Charts Lie: Getting Smarter about Visual Information](https://www.booktopia.com.au/how-charts-lie-alberto-cairo/prod9781324001560.html)
- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://b-ok.org/book/4990677/8126d3): A Primer on Making Informative and Compelling Figures.
- [The Data Engineering Cookbook](https://github.com/andkret/Cookbook)

### Fun

- [Google Sheets Formula Clock](https://www.benlcollins.com/spreadsheets/google-sheets-formula-clock/)

Commit message:

Widyr (Pacote R), ice tracking database

Material.md, after:

# Dados

Repositório de links e afins sobre Dados:

## Diretórios

- Estatística
- Git
- Python
- R
- Júlia
- Jupyter
- Raspagem de dados
- LaTeX

## Links

### Configuração

- [Jupyter and data science in Fedora](https://fedoramagazine.org/jupyter-and-data-science-in-fedora/)

### Apresentação de Dados

- [How to Make Data-Driven Visual Essays](https://kottke.org/19/04/how-to-make-data-driven-visual-essays)
- [Visdown - Markdown for Visualisation](https://visdown.com/)
- Alberto Cairo: [Why a picture isn't necessarily worth a thousand words](https://community.jmp.com/t5/JMP-Blog/Alberto-Cairo-Why-a-picture-isn-t-necessarily-worth-a-thousand/ba-p/190124)
- Gina Reynolds: [the ggplot flipbook](https://evamaerey.github.io/ggplot_flipbook/ggplot_flipbook_xaringan.html)
- [RamanMap](https://github.com/amjadtaleb/RamanMap): Read spectral map file, find features, use KMeans to cluster pixels into different materials and interactive GUI using bokeh.
- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://serialmentor.com/dataviz/index.html) *1
- [DataViz Project](https://datavizproject.com/): This is a website trying to present all relevant data visualizations, so you can find the right visualization and get inspired how to make them.
- [The Data Visualisation Catalogue](https://datavizcatalogue.com/)
- [The 25 Best Data Visualizations of 2018](https://visme.co/blog/best-data-visualizations/)
- Explaining A Single Isotype: [Creating Simplicity From Complexity](https://medium.com/data-visualization-society/explaining-a-single-isotype-creating-simplicity-from-complexity-15c174580336)
- The Functional Art:
  - [Lines aren't just for time-series](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/lines-arent-just-for-time-series.html)
  - [Aesthetics and ethics](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/aesthetics-as-ethics-jaime-serras.html): Jaime Serra's visualization philosophy
  - [Visualizing unreported murders in Mexico](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/visualizing-unreported-murders-in-mexico.html)
  - [A Venn diagram matrix by FiveThirtyEight](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/a-venn-diagram-matrix-by-fivethirtyeight.html)
  - [Concentric bubble charts are terrible; pie charts and moon charts may be OK](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/concentric-bubble-charts-are-terrible.html)
  - [Show AND tell](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/show-and-tell.html)
  - [Thoughts and readings about visualization critique](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/thoughts-and-readings-about.html)
  - [The language of visualization is ever-expanding](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/the-language-of-visualization-is-ever.html)
  - [Let's design more explanation graphics](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/lets-design-more-explanation-graphics.html): but let's edit them more tightly
  - [Mapping diversity and taking probability and base rates into account](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/mapping-diversity-and-taking.html)
  - [Absolute or relative values?](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/07/absolute-or-relative-values.html)
- [￼RawGraphs](https://rawgraphs.io/): The missing link between spreadsheets and data visualization. [repo](https://github.com/rawgraphs/raw/)
- [Panel GUI project for GSOC](https://github.com/intake/intake-gsoc-gui)

### Cores

- [Our understanding of rainbow color schemes remains incomplete](http://www.thefunctionalart.com/2019/06/our-understanding-of-rainbow-color.html)

### Trabalhando com Dados

- [How to Make Data-Driven Visual Essays](https://kottke.org/19/04/how-to-make-data-driven-visual-essays)
  - How to Make Dope Shit, Part 1: [Working with Data](https://pudding.cool/process/how-to-make-dope-shit-part-1/)
  - How to Make Dope Shit, Part 2: [Design](https://pudding.cool/process/how-to-make-dope-shit-part-2/)
- [First M87 Event Horizon Telescope Results. III. Data Processing and Calibration - IOPscience](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/2041-8213/ab0c57)

### Dados Geográficos

- [Flow maps in QGIS – no plugins needed!](https://anitagraser.com/2019/05/04/flow-maps-in-qgis-no-plugins-needed/)
- [Visualization of wolf pack territoriality based on 68,000 GPS-locations over a 7 month period [OC]. : dataisbeautiful](https://www.reddit.com/r/dataisbeautiful/comments/biel6f/visualization_of_wolf_pack_territoriality_based/)
- [Logistic Regression from Bayes' Theorem](https://www.countbayesie.com/blog/2019/6/12/logistic-regression-from-bayes-theorem)
- [Comparing OpenStreetMap and Wikidata](https://janakiev.com/slides/wikidata-openstreetmap/) by Nikolai Janakiev

### Estatística

- [Logistic Regression · UC Business Analytics R Programming Guide](https://uc-r.github.io/logistic_regression)
- Statistics and Data Science with R: [Complete Course](https://statslectures.com/r-stats-videos-tutorials)
- [Statistical Rethinking](https://github.com/rmcelreath/statrethinking_winter2019): A Bayesian Course Using R and Stan

### Interatividade

- [How to Turn Your ggplot2 Visualization into an Interactive Tweet » The Datatitian](https://datatitian.com/how-to-turn-your-ggplot2-visualization-into-an-interactive-tweet/)
- [XrViz](https://github.com/intake/xrviz): [An interactive visualisation interface for Xarrays](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/xrviz-an-interactive-visualisation-interface-for-xarrays-9ecf8e325aa9?gi=3875f15a2a7)

### Linguagem R

- [rOpenSci Packages](https://ropensci.github.io/dev_guide/): Development, Maintenance, and Peer Review
- [Análise de Redes Sociais no R (1/3)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7W-dvk6GupA&list=PLKLmseeuB7Uy-3jX7YkPvnKEBce2PGbU_)
- [Suporte do rstats às iniciativas de transparência do Tesouro Nacional brasileiro](https://medium.com/@fernandobarbalho/suporte-do-rstats-%C3%A0s-iniciativas-de-transpar%C3%AAncia-do-tesouro-nacional-brasileiro-dfdd5e1ab831)
- [Levando o patinho feio ao nirvana: uma história de amor e ódio entre pdf e dados abertos](https://medium.com/@fernandobarbalho/levando-o-patinho-feio-ao-nirvana-uma-hist%C3%B3ria-de-amor-e-%C3%B3dio-entre-pdf-e-dados-abertos-37f9b62ec0b0)
- [R and RStudio Basics](https://ismayc.github.io/rbasics-book/3-rstudiobasics.html)
- [RStudio Essentials](https://resources.rstudio.com/)
- [YaRrr! The Pirate’s Guide to R](https://bookdown.org/ndphillips/YaRrr/)
- [The Tidyverse in Action](https://evamaerey.github.io/tidyverse_in_action/tidyverse_in_action.html): a flipbook for data wrangling and plotting and modeling | made with Xaringan
- [A Crash Course in the R Programming Language](https://billpetti.github.io/Crash_course_in_R/)
- [rainbowrite](https://github.com/richfitz/rainbowrite): Port of lolcat to R, providing a drop-in improved cat, warning and stop function.
- [VOSONDash](https://github.com/vosonlab/VOSONDash): R Shiny application for interactive analysis of networks created by vosonSML.
- [excelR](https://github.com/Swechhya/excelR): An Interface to 'jExcel.js' Library
- [Analyze Instagram with R](http://thinktostart.com/analyze-instagram-r/): This tutorial will show you how you create an Instagram app, create an authentication process with R and get data via the Instagram API.
- [widyr](https://github.com/dgrtwo/widyr): Widen, process, and re-tidy a dataset.

#### Estilo de código

- [Style guide](http://adv-r.had.co.nz/Style.html): Good coding style is like using correct punctuation. You can manage without it, but it sure makes things easier to read. As with styles of punctuation, there are many possible variations.
- [Google's R Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/Rguide.xml):The goal of the R Programming Style Guide is to make our R code easier to read, share, and verify. The rules below were designed in collaboration with the entire R user community at Google.
- [formatR](https://yihui.name/formatr/).

#### Tutoriais

- [RStudio Tutorial – How to Import & Transform Data?](https://data-flair.training/blogs/rstudio-tutorial/)
- [Basic Data Analysis through R/R Studio](http://web.cs.ucla.edu/~gulzar/rstudio/basic-tutorial.html)
- [What does it look like at the top of the world?](https://www.simoncoulombe.com/2019/06/top-of-the-world/)
- [modelDown](https://mi2datalab.github.io/modelDown/): modelDown generates a website with HTML summaries for predictive models. [example](https://mi2datalab.github.io/modelDown_example/), on [cran](http://smarterpoland.pl/index.php/2019/06/modeldown-is-now-on-cran/)
- Links by [João Pedro](https://twitter.com/KimJoaoUn/status/1142942682613977093). (os que tiver *1 foi desse fio)
  - [Hands-On Programming with R](https://rstudio-education.github.io/hopr/index.html)
  - [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/index.html)
  - [Quantitative Social Science](http://qss.princeton.press/), by Kosuke Imai [materiais](http://qss.princeton.press/student-resources-for-quantitative-social-science/) [mais](http://gen.lib.rus.ec/book/index.php?md5=11D86C0E1D9F653266D2824B17E7DECC)
  - [petR](https://github.com/pedrocava/petR): Curso de R para o PET da Economia da UFF. Aulas e Material do Workshop de R com o PET da Faculdade de Economia da UFF.
- [Workshop sobre criação de workflows no workbench para exploração de dados](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vRhkHlPcCpw6TwFk8D5kcvRX1PQ4KWkOUtxACqOf_WcHG6JVzd1YUYAATBz3oQpKAxbSCyx6OAVvOf2/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000#slide=id.p)

### Modelos

- [OSF | ShareSEM: Example and Template R Scripts for Lavaan, Blavaan, and More](https://osf.io/nh2mb/)
- [BOOKDOWN](https://bookdown.org/)

### Machine Learning

- [3 Machine Learning Books that Helped me Level Up](http://www.datastuff.tech/data-science/3-machine-learning-books-that-helped-me-level-up-as-a-data-scientist/)
- [Videos – Machine Behavior](https://machinebehavior.org/videos/)
- [Neural Network Models in R](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/neural-network-models-r)
- [Predictive Analytics using Machine Learning](https://www.datacamp.com/community/tutorials/predictive-analytics-machine-learning)

### Raspagem de Dados

- [Script para tirar série história de BOs do Estado de SP (fonte: SSPSP)](https://gist.github.com/voltdatalab/0bc390e674548b9b66c4d4cf9cdb6e2f)
- [World Cup in six lines of Python 3. Jogos da Copa do Mundo em cinco linhas de Python 3.](https://gist.github.com/fmasanori/1288160dad16cc473a53)
- [tweeter Hashtag grabber](https://gist.github.com/cuducos/08f7051ae7066d36bc5ff5803d2bf46f)
- [Construindo um robô monitor de Twitter](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/e/2PACX-1vQ4fBn3y0pKVBMYfctLJAjG1sbXX4dXiOH9cZ2izHHAralSPJbadn2CZkFgjlij2n7KQZcQFJW6q1p2/pub?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000#slide=id.g35f391192_00)
- [Find hidden friends and communities for any Facebook user](https://techblog.mediaservice.net/2019/05/find-hidden-friends-and-community-for-any-facebook-user/), [FFFF Finds Facebook Friends](https://github.com/sowdust/ffff). [example](https://www.mediaservice.net/upload919/ffff-graph/)

### Cursos

- [Data Science | University of London](https://london.ac.uk/courses/data-science-msc)
- [Curso de Análise de Dados Públicos PyLadies São Paulo](https://github.com/fmasanori/CursoPyLadiesSP)
- [Ciência de Dados](http://www.pucrs.br/politecnica/cursos/ciencia-de-dados/) - pós graduação na puc-pr

#### Palestras

- [realworldscicomp](https://github.com/melissawm/realworldscicomp): Palestra "De Fortran a Julia: Computação Científica no Mundo Real".
- [Dados abertos, Python e PostgreSQL: a combinação perfeita](http://turicas.info/slides/brasil.io/pgconfbr/)

### Geo

- [geobr](https://github.com/ipeaGIT/geobr): Easy access to shapefiles of the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) and other official spatial data sets of Brazil.

### Bases de Dados

- [World Bank Data](https://datahub.io/collections/world-bank): The World Bank has a wide array of high quality data and much of it is open data. It covers several distinct collections and databases.
- WorldBank [Gender Stats](https://datacatalog.worldbank.org/dataset/gender-statistics): The Gender Statistics database is a comprehensive source for the latest sex-disaggregated data and gender statistics covering demography, education, health, access to economic opportunities, public life and decision-making, and agency.
  - [How to download a CSV file from the World Bank's dataset](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29167727/how-to-download-a-csv-file-from-the-world-banks-dataset)
- Brasil.IO: [Libertação de Dados Públicos, com Python](http://turicas.info/slides/brasil.io/qconsp2019/)
- [Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/LNS14000000)
- [Buscador de Fondos de Inversión](https://www.selfbank.es/busqueda/fondos)
- [pySGS](https://github.com/rafpyprog/pySGS): 📈 Python interface for the Brazilian Central Bank's Time Series Management System (SGS)
- [mapa da violência de gênero](https://mapadaviolenciadegenero.com.br/downloads/)
- [leis-brasileiras](https://github.com/MinisterioPublicoRJ/leis-brasileiras): Scripts para baixar de forma automatizada as leis brasileiras disponíveis em sites de órgãos do governo.
- [The Antarctic Iceberg Tracking Database](https://www.scp.byu.edu/data/iceberg/)
  
#### Mudanças Climáticas

- [Anual Climate temperatures](http://www-users.york.ac.uk/~kdc3/papers/coverage2013/had4_krig_annual_v2_0_0.txt)
- [Berkeley Earth](http://berkeleyearth.lbl.gov/auto/Global/Land_and_Ocean_complete.txt): This file contains a detailed summary of the changes in Earth's global average surface temperature estimated by combining the Berkeley Earth land-surface temperature field with a reinterpolated version of the HadSST ocean temperature field.
- [NOAA](https://climate.copernicus.eu/sites/default/files/2019-06/ts_1month_anomaly_Global_ea_2T_201905_v01.csv)
- [GLOBAL Land-Ocean Temperature Index in 0.01 degrees Celsius](https://data.giss.nasa.gov/gistemp/tabledata_v3/GLB.Ts+dSST.txt): GHCN-v3 1880-04/2019 + SST: ERSST v5 1880-04/2019
- [Met Office Hadley Centre observations datasets](http://www.metoffice.gov.uk/hadobs/hadcrut4/)
- Aquecimento dos Oceanos:
  - [NOAA Ocean Data](https://data.nodc.noaa.gov/woa/DATA_ANALYSIS/3M_HEAT_CONTENT/DATA/basin/yearly/h22-w0-700m.dat)
  - [2018 Continues Record Global Ocean Warming](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00376-019-8276-x)
  - [altimetry.fr](ftp://ftp.aviso.altimetry.fr/pub/oceano/AVISO/indicators/msl/MSL_Serie_MERGED_Global_AVISO_GIA_Adjust_Filter2m.txt)
  - [csiro.au](ftp://ftp.csiro.au/legresy/gmsl_files/CSIRO_Alt.csv)
- Extensão de gelo no Ártico:
  - [Goddard](ftp://sidads.colorado.edu/DATASETS/NOAA/G02135/north/monthly/data/N_09_extent_v3.0.csv)
  - [sea ice area anomalies (millions of sq km) relative to 1981-2010](https://climate.copernicus.eu/sites/default/files/2019-06/ts_1month_anomaly_polar_ea_CI_201905_v01.csv)
  - [Massa Glaciar](http://wgms.ch/data/faq/mb_ref.csv)
  - [Hadley Centre Sea Ice and Sea Surface Temperature data set (HadISST)](https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/hadobs/hadisst/)
- CO²:
  - [NOAA ESRL CO2 micromol/mol](ftp://aftp.cmdl.noaa.gov/products/trends/co2/co2_mm_mlo.txt)
  - [NOAA ESRL CO2](ftp://aftp.cmdl.noaa.gov/products/trends/co2/co2_mm_gl.txt)
  - [kishou.go.jp](https://gaw.kishou.go.jp/static/publications/global_mean_mole_fractions/2018/co2_monthly_20181122.csv)
- [Tweet of the Climate 2018](https://twitter.com/micefearboggis/status/1138471910201856005)
  
### Repositórios

- [datos-de-miercoles](https://github.com/cienciadedatos/datos-de-miercoles): Versión en español del proyecto #tidytuesday
- [another book on data science](https://github.com/rnorm/book_sample)
- [O'Reilly Graph Algorithms Book - Neo4j Graph Database Platform](https://neo4j.com/graph-algorithms-book/)
- Data science cheatsheets:
  - [Cheat Sheet](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/67qvytsapfk3rpq/AAARGdVnqswdZ0EXVGZkch33a?dl=0) (keras, matplotlib, R, python, pandas, numpy, etc..)
  - [Cheat Sheet](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/0kf92mu7kl4yoat/AABL47l2kduSdWRUXbAFvTMea?dl=0) (R, DateTimes, Databases, etc..)
- [tidytuesday](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday) - Official repo for the #tidytuesday project.
- [data_sci_guide](https://github.com/Chris-Engelhardt/data_sci_guide) - A community-sourced data science repo.
- [Data-Science](https://github.com/paulinhacnn/Data-Science) -  Toda semana um novo material estará disponível para guiar no estudo de ciência de dados =)
- [MATLAB–Python–Julia cheatsheet](https://cheatsheets.quantecon.org/)

### Assuntos Gerais

- [Lnews](https://www.labcomdata.com.br/)
- [Que tal organizar um ‘Cerveja com Dados’ em sua cidade? – Escola de Dados](https://escoladedados.org/2018/02/que-tal-organizar-um-cerveja-com-dados-em-sua-cidade/)
- [O que aprendi no Malofiej 27 – datavizbr](https://medium.com/datavizbr/o-que-aprendi-no-malofiej-27-6ca575b8ae3c)
- [Big Data Brasil Day 2019 rola nos dias 2 a 5 de maio](http://tutano.trampos.co/20800-big-data-brasil-day-2019/)
- [2019 Women in Tech Report](https://research.hackerrank.com/women-in-tech/2019)

#### Exemplos

- [Maps Mania: Plastic Polluted River & Oceans](http://googlemapsmania.blogspot.com/2019/04/plastic-polluted-river-oceans.html)
- [What's Really Warming the World? Climate deniers blame natural factors; NASA data proves otherwise](https://www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2015-whats-warming-the-world/)
- [O poder da Inteligência de Dados para Gestores do Ensino Superior](https://universidados.com.br/)
- [Analysing the Wahl-O-Mat about the 2019 EU election](https://github.com/askLubich/Wahl-O-Mat-EU-2019)
- [Lok Sabha ELection Results 2019](https://data.indianexpress.com/lok-sabha-elections-results-2019-live-counting/)
- [Exploratory Analysis of NBA Salary Data](https://github.com/basketballrelativity/salaries)
- [twitter-overlap](https://github.com/fivethirtyeight/twitter-overlap): 2020 Democratic presidential candidate Twitter followers
- [Ciência de dados na linha de comando](http://turicas.info/slides/linha-de-comando/abraji-2019.html#/)
- [Conteúdos mais acessados pelos Iguaçuenses](https://medialabfoz.com/2019/06/28/top10primeiraquinzena/) – período 28/05 até 10/06. By MediaLAB FOZ
- [After Sandy Hook, we said never again. And then we let 2184 mass shootings happen.](https://www.vox.com/a/mass-shootings-america-sandy-hook-gun-violence)

#### Copyleft

- [CopyLeft Argentina](https://vialibre.org.ar/arcopy.pdf)

#### Bacana

- [The Effects of Peanut Butter on the Rotation of the Earth](https://improbable.com/airchives/classical/articles/peanut_butter_rotation.html)
- Amy Cesal on Twitter: ["When you're marrying the human you met while collaborating on #dataviz together, you're basically required to collaborate on some viz for the wedding, right?"](https://twitter.com/AmyCesal/status/1118858416691273730)
- Daniel Bolnick on Twitter: [Predicted # of deaths in Season 8 #GameofThrones](https://twitter.com/DanielBolnick/status/1115319449945628673) -: 1276. Based on a log-linear regression from seasons 1-7 (t = 7.1, P = 0.0009), using data..

#### Pesquisa

- [Ten simple rules towards healthier research labs](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006914)

#### Livros

- [Political Analysis Using R](https://www.springer.com/us/book/9783319234458)
- [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/)
- [Data Science from Scratch: First Principles with Python](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Data-Science-Scratch-Joel-Grus/dp/1492041130/)
- [How Charts Lie: Getting Smarter about Visual Information](https://www.booktopia.com.au/how-charts-lie-alberto-cairo/prod9781324001560.html)
- [Fundamentals of Data Visualization](https://b-ok.org/book/4990677/8126d3): A Primer on Making Informative and Compelling Figures.
- [The Data Engineering Cookbook](https://github.com/andkret/Cookbook)

### Fun

- [Google Sheets Formula Clock](https://www.benlcollins.com/spreadsheets/google-sheets-formula-clock/)
